<PG19_BOOK test/10146.txt>

ST. PAUL***


E-text prepared by Josephine Paolucci and the Project Gutenberg Online
Distributed Proofreading Team



REMINISCENCES OF PIONEER DAYS IN ST. PAUL

A Collection of Articles Written for and Published in the Daily
Pioneer Press.

By FRANK MOORE






NEWSPAPER STRUGGLES OF PIONEER DAYS.

A BRIEF NARRATION OF INCIDENTS AND EVENTS CONNECTED WITH THE EARLY
DAYS OF ST. PAUL, DAILY NEWSPAPERS.


If James M. Goodhue could revisit the earth and make a tour among the
daily newspaper offices of St. Paul he would discover that wonderful
strides had been made in the method of producing a newspaper during
the latter half of the past century. Among the first things to attract
the attention of this old-timer would be the web-perfecting press,
capable of producing 25,000 impressions an hour, instead of the old
hand press of 240 impressions an hour; the linotype machine, capable
of setting 6,000 to 10,000 ems per hour, instead of the old hand
compositor producing only 800 to 1,000 ems per hour, and the mailing
machine, enabling one man to do the work of five or six under the
old method. Think of getting out the Sunday Pioneer Press with the
material in use fifty years ago. It would take 600 hand presses, 600
hand pressmen and 600 boys three hours to print the edition, and as
there were no means of stereotyping in those days the forms would have
to be set up 600 times, requiring the services of 5,000 compositors.
Papers printed under these conditions would have to be sold for one
dollar each, and there would not be much profit in it at that. The
first daily papers printed in St. Paul were not conducted or a very
gigantic scale, as the entire force of one office generally consisted
of one pressman, five or six compositors, two editors and a business
manager. A few reminiscences of the trials and tribulations of the
early newspaper manager, editor and compositor may not be wholly
devoid of interest.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1857 there occurred in Minnesota an election of delegates to the
constitutional convention to provide for the admission of Minnesota
into the galaxy of states. The election was so close, politically,
that when the delegates met there was a division, and the Republicans
and Democrats held separate conventions. At the conclusion of the work
of the two conventions the contract for printing was awarded to the
two leading papers of the state--the Pioneer and the Minnesotian--the
Pioneer to print the proceedings of the Democratic body and the
Minnesotian that of the Republican. This contract called for the
expenditure of considerable money for material with which to perform
the work. Mr. Moore, the business manager of the Minnesotian, went to
New York and purchased a Hoe press, the first one ever brought to the
state, and a large quantity of type; also a Hoe proof press, which is
still in use in the Pioneer Press composing room. When the book was
about completed the business manager of the Minnesotian was informed
that an injunction had been issued prohibiting him from drawing
any money from the state until the question of the right of the
Minnesotian to do any state printing had been determined by the
district court. Mr. Goodrich was state printer and claimed he had a
right to print the proceedings of both constitutional bodies. This
action on the part of the Pioneer produced great consternation in the
Minnesotian office, as most of the men had not received more than half
pay for some time, and now, when the balance of their pay was almost
in sight, they were suddenly compelled to await the slow and doubtful
action of the courts before receiving pay for their summer's work. The
district court, subsequently confirmed by the supreme court, decided
in favor of the Minnesotian, and the day following the decision Mr.
Moore, of the Minnesotian, brought down a bag of gold from the capitol
containing $4,000, and divided it up among his employes.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1858, when the first Atlantic cable was laid, the news was
anxiously looked for, and nearly every inhabitant of the city turned
out to greet the arrival of the Gray Eagle and Itasca, two of the
fastest boats on the river, which were expected to bring the news
of the successful laying of the cable. The Gray Eagle started from
Dubuque at 9 o'clock in the morning and the Itasca started from
Prairie du Chien, about 100 miles farther up the river, at noon of the
same day. When the boats reached the bend below the river they were
abreast of each other, and as they reached the levee it was hardly
possible to tell which was ahead. One of the passengers on the Gray
Eagle had a copy of the Dubuque Herald containing the Queen's message,
tied up with a small stone on the inside of it, and as he threw it to
the shore a messenger from the Minnesotian caught it and ran up Bench
street to the Minnesotian office, where the printers were waiting,
and the Minnesotian had the satisfaction of getting out an extra some
little time before their competitors.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the summer season the newspapers had to rely, to a considerable
extent, on the steamboats for late Dubuque and Chicago papers for
telegraph news. There were three or four daily lines of steamers to
St. Paul, and every one of them could be distinguished by its whistle.
When it was time for the arrival of the boat bringing the newspapers
from which the different papers expected to get their telegraphic
news, messengers from the different offices would be at the levee, and
as the boat neared the shore they would leap for the gangplank, and
there was always a scramble to get to the clerk's office first.
James J. Hill and the late Gus Borup were almost always at the levee
awaiting the arrival of the steamers, but as they were after copies
of the boats' manifest they did not come in competition with the
adventurous kids from the newspaper offices.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Minnesotian was probably the first daily paper in the West to
illustrate a local feature. During the summer of 1859 a man by the
name of Jackson was lynched by a mob in Wright county, and Gov. Sibley
called out the Pioneer Guards to proceed to the place where the
lynching occurred and arrest all persons connected with the tragedy.
The Pioneer Guards was the crack military company of the state, and
the only service any of its members ever expected to do was in the
ballroom or to participate in a Fourth of July parade. When they were
called out by the governor there was great consternation in the ranks.
One of the members, who is still a prominent politician in the city,
when told that his first duty was to serve his country, tremblingly
remarked that he thought his first duty was to provide for his wife
and family.

A number of them made their wills before departing, as they thought
the whole of Wright county was in open rebellion. After being absent
for about a week they proudly marched back to the city without ever
firing a gun or seeing an enemy. The late J. Fletcher Williams was
city editor of the Minnesotian, and he wrote an extended account of
the expedition, and It was profusely illustrated with patent medicine
cuts and inverted wood type and border, the only available material at
that time that could be procured.

       *       *       *       *       *

The year 1859 was a memorable one in the political history of
Minnesota. Alexander Ramsey and George L. Becker, both now living in
this city, were the rival candidates for governor. The Republicans
made extraordinary efforts to elect their state and legislative
tickets, as both governor and United States senator were at stake.
Among the speakers imported by the Republicans were the Hon. Galusha
A. Grow of Pennsylvania and Hon. Schuyler Colfax of Indiana. Mr. Grow,
then as now, represented the congressional district in Pennsylvania in
which I formally resided, and I was very anxious to hear him, as the
first political speech I had ever heard was made by him in a small
village in Pennsylvania. The speakers were announced to speak at the
old People's theater, on the corner of Fourth and St. Peter streets,
and I was among the first to enter. The theater was packed to
overflowing. Mr. Grow had made a very interesting speech of about an
hour's duration, and Mr. Colfax was to follow for an equal length of
time. After Mr. Colfax had spoken about ten minutes an alarm of fire
was sounded and in less than fifteen minutes the entire structure was
burned to the ground. This happened about 9:30 o'clock in the
evening, and, strange to relate, not one of the morning papers had an
announcement of the fact the next day. The morning papers at that time
were something like an evening paper of to-day. They were set up and
made up in the afternoon and generally printed in the early part of
the evening. The result of that election was very gratifying to the
Republicans. I can see old Dr. Foster now writing a double column
political head for the Minnesotian, the first two lines of which were:
"Shout, Republicans, Shout! We've Cleaned the Breech Clouts Out!"

Dr. Foster was the editor of the Minnesotian and was quite a power in
the Republican party. He wielded a vigorous pen and possessed a very
irascible temper. I have often seen him perform some Horace Greeley
antics in the composing room of the old Minnesotian. At the time of
the execution of John Brown for his attempted raid into Virginia, I
remember bringing the Chicago Tribune to the doctor, containing the
announcement of the execution. I had arranged the paper so that the
doctor could take in the contents of the heading at the first glance.
The doctor looked at the headlines a second and then exclaimed, loud
enough to be heard a block, "Great God! In the nineteenth century, a
man hung for an idea!"

At another time the doctor became very much enraged over some news
that I had laid before him. In the early 50's Galusha A. Grow, of
Pennsylvania, introduced into the house of representatives the first
homestead law and the Republican party soon afterward incorporated
the idea into their platform as one of their pet measures. After
superhuman effort the bill passed the house of representatives, that
body being nearly tie politically, and was sent to the senate. The
Democratic majority in the senate was not very favorably impressed
with the measure, but with the assistance of the late President
Johnson, who was senator from Tennessee at that time, the bill passed
the senate by a small majority. There was great rejoicing over the
event and no one supposed for a moment that the president would veto
the measure. When I laid the Chicago Tribune before the excitable
doctor containing the announcement of Buchanan's veto the very air was
blue with oaths. The doctor took the paper and rushed out into the
street waving the paper frantically in the air, cursing the president
at every step.

       *       *       *       *       *

From 1854, the date of the starting of the three St. Paul daily
papers, until 1860, the time of the completion of the Winslow
telegraph line, there was great strife between the Pioneer,
Minnesotian and Times as to which would be the first to appear on the
street with the full text of the president's message. The messages of
Pierce and Buchanan were very lengthy, and for several days preceding
their arrival the various offices had all the type of every
description distributed and all the printers who could possibly be
procured engaged to help out on the extra containing the forthcoming
message. It was customary to pay every one employed, from the devil to
the foreman, $2.50 in gold, and every printer in the city was notified
to be in readiness for the approaching typographical struggle. One
year one of the proprietors of the Minnesotian thought he would
surprise the other offices, and he procured the fastest livery team In
the city and went down the river as far as Red Wing to intercept the
mail coach, a

<PG19_BOOK test/10321.txt>





Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Sjaani and PG Distributed Proofreaders





DRAGON'S BLOOD

by

HENRY MILNER RIDEOUT

with illustrations by HAROLD M. BRETT

1909




To
CHARLES TOWNSEND COPELAND,
  15 Hollis Hall, Cambridge, Massachusetts

Dear Cope,

Mr. Peachey Carnehan, when he returned from Kafiristan, in bad shape but
with a king's head in a bag, exclaimed to the man in the newspaper
office, "And you've been sitting there ever since!" There is only a pig
in the following poke; and yet in giving you the string to cut and the
bag to open, I feel something of Peachey's wonder to think of you,
across all this distance and change, as still sitting in your great
chair by the green lamp, while past a dim background of books moves the
procession of youth. Many of us, growing older in various places,
remember well your friendship, and are glad that you are there, urging
our successors to look backward into good books, and forward into life.

    Yours ever truly,
        H. M. R.
_Sausalito, California_.


CONTENTS

     I. A LADY AND A GRIFFIN
    II. THE PIED PIPER
   III. UNDER FIRE
    IV. THE SWORD-PEN
     V. IN TOWN
    VI. THE PAGODA
   VII. IPHIGENIA
  VIII. THE HOT NIGHT
    IX. PASSAGE AT ARMS
     X. THREE PORTALS
    XI. WHITE LOTUS
   XII. THE WAR BOARD
  XIII. THE SPARE MAN
   XIV. OFF DUTY
    XV. KAU FAI
   XVI. THE GUNWALE
  XVII. LAMP OF HEAVEN
 XVIII. SIEGE
   XIX. BROTHER MOLES
    XX. THE HAKKA BOAT
   XXI. THE DRAGON'S SHADOW


ILLUSTRATIONS

_"Good-by! A pleasant voyage"_ ... Frontispiece

_Rudolph was aware of crowded bodies, of yellow faces grinning_

_He let the inverted cup dangle from his hands_

_He went leaping from sight over the crest_



CHAPTER I


A LADY AND A GRIFFIN

It was "about first-drink time," as the captain of the Tsuen-Chau, bound
for Shanghai and Japan ports, observed to his friend Cesare Domenico, a
good British subject born at Malta. They sat on the coolest corner in
Port Said, their table commanding both the cross-way of Chareh Sultan el
Osman, and the short, glaring vista of desert dust and starved young
acacias which led to the black hulks of shipping in the Canal. From the
Bar la Poste came orchestral strains--"Ai nostri monti"--performed by a
piano indoors and two violins on the pavement. The sounds contended with
a thin, scattered strumming of cafe mandolins, the tinkle of glasses,
the steady click of dominoes and backgammon; then were drowned in the
harsh chatter of Arab coolies who, all grimed as black as Nubians, and
shouldering spear-headed shovels, tramped inland, their long tunics
stiff with coal-dust, like a band of chain-mailed Crusaders lately
caught in a hurricane of powdered charcoal. Athwart them, Parisian
gowns floated past on stout Italian forms; hulking third-class
Australians, in shirtsleeves, slouched along toward their mail-boat,
hugging whiskey bottles, baskets of oranges, baskets of dates; British
soldiers, khaki-clad for India, raced galloping donkeys through the
crowded and dusty street. It was mail-day, and gayety flowed among the
tables, under the thin acacias, on a high tide of Amer Picon.

Through the inky files of the coaling-coolies burst an alien and
bewildered figure. He passed unnoticed, except by the filthy little Arab
bootblacks who swarmed about him, trotting, capering, yelping
cheerfully: "Mista Ferguson!--polish, finish!--can-can--see nice Frencha
girl--Mista McKenzie, Scotcha fella from Dublin--smotta picture--polish,
finish!"--undertoned by a squabbling chorus. But presently, studying his
face, they cried in a loud voice, "Nix! Alles!" and left him, as one not
desiring polish.

"German, that chap," drawled the captain of the Tsuen-Chau, lazily,
noticing the uncertain military walk of the young man's clumsy legs, his
uncouth clothes, his pale visage winged by blushing ears of coral pink.

"The Eitel's in, then," replied Cesare. And they let the young Teuton
vanish in the vision of mixed lives.

Down the lane of music and chatter and drink he passed slowly, like a
man just wakened,--assailed by Oriental noise and smells, jostled by the
races of all latitudes and longitudes, surrounded and solitary, unheeded
and self-conscious. With a villager's awkwardness among crowds, he made
his way to a German shipping-office.

"Dispatches for Rudolph Hackh?" he inquired, twisting up his blond
moustache, and trying to look insolent and peremptory, like an
employer of men.

"There are none, sir," answered an amiable clerk, not at all impressed.

Abashed once more in the polyglot street, still daunted by his first
plunge into the foreign and the strange, he retraced his path, threading
shyly toward the Quai Francois Joseph. He slipped through the barrier
gate, signaled clumsily to a boatman, crawled under the drunken little
awning of the dinghy, and steered a landsman's course along the shining
Canal toward the black wall of a German mail-boat. Cramping the Arab's
oar along the iron side, he bumped the landing-stage. Safe on deck, he
became in a moment stiff and haughty, greeting a fellow passenger here
and there with a half-military salute. All afternoon he sat or walked
alone, unapproachable, eyeing with a fierce and gloomy stare the
squalid front of wooden houses on the African side, the gray desert
glare of Asia, the pale blue ribbon of the great Canal stretching
southward into the unknown.

He composed melancholy German verses in a note-book. He recalled famous
exiles--Camoens, Napoleon, Byron--and essayed to copy something of all
three in his attitude. He cherished the thought that he, clerk at
twenty-one, was now agent at twenty-two, and traveling toward a house
with servants, off there beyond the turn of the Canal, beyond the curve
of the globe. But for all this, Rudolph Hackh felt young, homesick,
timid of the future, and already oppressed with the distance, the age,
the manifold, placid mystery of China.

Toward that mystery, meanwhile, the ship began to creep. Behind her,
houses, multi- funnels, scrubby trees, slowly swung to blot out
the glowing Mediterranean and the western hemisphere. Gray desert banks
closed in upon her strictly, slid gently astern, drawing with them to
the vanishing-point the bright lane of traversed water. She gained the
Bitter Lakes; and the red conical buoys, like beads a-stringing, slipped
on and added to the two converging dotted lines.

"Good-by to the West!" thought Rudolph. As he mourned sentimentally at
this lengthening tally of their departure, and tried to quote
appropriate farewells, he was deeply touched and pleased by the sadness
of his emotions. "Now what does Byron say?"

The sombre glow of romantic sentiment faded, however, with the sunset.
That evening, as the ship glided from ruby coal to ruby coal of the
gares, following at a steady six knots the theatric glare of her
search-light along arsenically green cardboard banks, Rudolph paced the
deck in a mood much simpler and more honest. In vain he tried the
half-baked philosophy of youth. It gave no comfort; and watching the
clear desert stars of two mysterious continents, he fell prey to the
unbounded and unintelligible complexity of man's world. His own career
seemed no more dubious than trivial.

Succeeding days only strengthened this mood. The Red Sea passed in a
dream of homesickness, intolerable heat, of a pale blue surface
stretched before aching eyes, and paler strips of pink and gray coast,
faint and distant. Like dreams, too, passed Aden and Colombo; and then,
suddenly, he woke to the most acute interest.

He had ignored his mess-mates at their second-class table; but when the
new passengers from Colombo came to dinner, he heard behind him the
swish of stiff skirts, felt some one brush his shoulder, and saw,
sliding into the next revolving chair, the vision of a lady in white.

"_Mahlzeit_" she murmured dutifully. But the voice was not German.
Rudolph heard her subside with little flouncings, and felt his ears grow
warm and red. Delighted, embarrassed, he at last took sufficient courage
to steal side-glances.

The first showed her to be young, fair-haired, and smartly attired in
the plainest and coolest of white; the second, not so young, but very
charming, with a demure downcast look, and a deft control of her spoon
that, to Rudolph's eyes, was splendidly fastidious; at the third, he was
shocked to encounter the last flitting light of a counter-glance, from
large, dark-blue eyes, not devoid of amusement.

"She laughs at me!" fumed the young man, inwardly. He was angry,
conscious of those unlucky wing-and-wing ears, vexed at his own
boldness. "I have been offensive. She laughs at me." He generalized from
long inexperience of a subject to which he had given acutely interested
thought: "They always do."

Anger did not prevent him, however, from noting that his neighbor
traveled alone, that she must be an Englishwoman, and yet that she
diffused, somehow, an aura of the Far East and of romance. He shot many
a look toward her deck-chair that evening, and when she had gone below,
strategically bought a cigar, sat down in the chair to light it, and by
a carefully shielded match contrived to read the tag that fluttered on
the arm: "B. Forrester, Hongkong."

Afterward he remembered that by early daylight he might have read it for
nothing; and so, for economic penance, smoked to the bitter end, finding
the cigar disagreeable but manly. At all events, homesickness had
vanished in a curious impatience for the morrow. Miss Forrester: he
would sit beside Miss Forrester at table. If only they both were
traveling first-class!--then she might be a great lady. To be enamored
of a countess, now--A cigar, after all, was the proper companion of
bold thoughts.

At breakfast, recalling her amusement, he remained silent and wooden. At
tiffin his heart leaped.

"You speak English, I'm sure, don't you?" Miss Forrester was saying, in
a pleasant, rather drawling voice. Her eyes were quite serious now, and
indeed friendly. Confusion seized him.

"I have less English to amuse myself with the ladies," he answered
wildly. Next moment, however, he regained that painful mastery of the
tongue which had won his promotion as agent, and stammered: "Pardon. I
would mean, I speak so badly as not to entertain her."

"Indeed, you speak very nicely," she rejoined, with such a smile as no
woman had ever troubled to bestow on him. "That will be so pleasant,
for my German is shocking."

Dazed by the compliment, by her manner of taking for granted that future
conversation which had seemed too good to come true, but above all by
her arch, provoking smile, Rudolph sat with his head in a whirl, feeling
that the wide eyes of all the second-cabiners were penetrating the
tumultuous secret of his breast. Again his English deserted, and left
him stammering. But Miss Forrester chatted steadily, appeared to
understand murmurs which he himself found obscure, and so restored his
confidence that before tiffin was over he talked no less gayly, his
honest face alight and glowing. She taught him the names of the strange
fruits before them; but though listening and questioning eagerly, he
could not afterward have told loquat from pumelo, or custard-apple
from papaya.

Nor could this young man, of methodical habits, ever have told how long
their voyage lasted. It passed, unreal and timeless, in a glorious mist,
a delighted fever: the background a blur of glossy white bulkheads and
iron rails, awnings that fluttered in the warm, languorous winds, an
infinite tropic ocean poignantly blue; the foreground, Miss Forrester.
Her white figure, trim and dashing; her round blue eyes, filled with coy
wonder, the arch innocence of a spoiled child; her pale, smooth cheeks,
rather plump, but coming oddly and enticingly to a point at the mouth
and tilted chin; her lips, somewhat too full, too red, but quick and
whimsical: he saw these all, and these only, in a bright focus,
listening meanwhile to a voice by turns languid and lively, with now and
then a curious liquid

<PG19_BOOK test/10356.txt>





Produced by Carlo Traverso, Tom Allen and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team from images generously made available
by the Bibliotheque nationale de France (BnF/Gallica) at
http://gallica.bnf.fr.





[Illustration]

TRAVELS IN MOROCCO,

BY THE LATE JAMES RICHARDSON,

AUTHOR OF "A MISSION TO CENTRAL AFRICA,"
"TRAVELS IN THE DESERT OF SAHARA," &C.

EDITED BY HIS WIDOW.

[Illustration]

IN TWO VOLUMES.

VOL. II.




CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.


CHAPTER I.

The Mogador Jewesses.--Disputes between the Jew and the Moor.--Melancholy
Scenes.--The Jews of the Atlas.--Their Religion.--Beautiful Women.--The
Four Wives.--Statues discovered.--Discrepancy of age of married people.--
Young and frail fair ones.--Superstition respecting Salt.--White
Brandy.--Ludicrous Anecdote.

CHAPTER II.

The Maroquine dynasties.--Family of the Shereefian Monarchs.--Personal
appearances and character of Muley Abd Errahman.--Refutation of the
charge of human sacrifices against the Moorish Princes.--Genealogy of
the reigning dynasty of Morocco.--The tyraufc Yezeed, (half
Irish).--Muley Suleiman, the "The Shereeff of Shereefs."--Diplomatic
relations of the Emperor of Morocco with European Powers.--Muley Ismael
enamoured with the French Princess de Conti.--Rival diplomacy of France
and England near the Maroquine Court.--Mr. Hay's correspondence with
this Court on the Slave-trade.--Treaties between Great Britain and
Morocco; how defective and requiring amendment.--Unwritten engagements.

CHAPTER III.

The two different aspects by which the strength and resources of the
Empire of Morocco may be viewed or estimated.--Native appellation of
Morocco.--Geographical limits of this country.--Historical review of the
inhabitants of North Africa, and the manner in which this region was
successively peopled and conquered.--The distinct varieties of the human
race, as found in Morocco.--Nature of the soil and climate of this
country.--Derem, or the Atlas chain of mountains.--Natural
products.--The Shebbel, or Barbary salmon; different characters of
exports of the Northern and Southern provinces.--The Elaeonderron
Argan.--Various trees and plants.--Mines.--The Sherb-Errech, or
Desert-horse.

CHAPTER IV.

Division of Morocco into kingdoms or States, and zones or regions.--
Description of the towns and cities on the Maroquine coasts of the
Mediterranean and Atlantic waters.--The Zafarine Isles.--Melilla.--
Alhucemas.--Penon de Velez.--Tegaza.--Provinces of Rif and Garet.--
Tetouan.--Ceuta.--Arzila.--El Araish.--Mehedia.--Salee.--Rabat.--
Fidallah.--Dar-el-Beidah.--Azamour.--Mazagran.--Saffee.--Waladia.

CHAPTER V.

Description of the Imperial Cities or Capitals of the Empire.--
El-Kesar.--Mequinez.--Fez.--Morocco.--The province of Tafilett, the
birth-place of the present dynasty of the Shereefs.

CHAPTER VI.

Description of the towns and cities of the Interior, and those of the
Kingdom of Fez.--Seisouan.--Wazen.--Zawiat.--Muley Dris.--Sofru.--
Dubdu.--Taza.--Oushdah.--Agla.--Nakbila.--Meshra.--Khaluf.--The Places
distinguished in. Morocco, including Sous, Draka, and Tafilett.--Tefza.
--Pitideb.--Ghuer.--Tyijet.--Bulawan.--Soubeit--Meramer.--El-Medina.--
Tagodast.--Dimenet.--Aghmat.--Fronga.--Tedmest.--Tekonlet.--Tesegdelt.--
Tagawost.--Tedsi Beneali.--Beni Sabih.--Tatta and Akka.--Mesah or
Assah.--Talent.--Shtouka.--General observations on the statistics of
population.--The Maroquine Sahara.

CHAPTER VII.

London Jew-boys.--Excursion to the Emperor's garden, and the Argan
Forests.--Another interview with the Governor of Mogador on the
Anti-Slavery Address.--Opinion of the Moors on the Abolition of Slavery.

CHAPTER VIII.

El-Jereed, the Country of Dates.--Its hard soil.--Salt Lake. Its vast
extent.--Beautiful Palm-trees.--The Dates, a staple article of Food.--
Some Account of the Date-Palm.--Made of Culture.--Delicious Beverage.--
Tapping the Palm.--Meal formed from the Dates.--Baskets made of the
Branches of the Tree.--Poetry of the Palm.--Its Irrigation.--
Palm-Groves.--Collection of Tribute by the "Bey of the Camp."

CHAPTER IX.

Tour in the Jereed of Captain Balfour and Mr. Reade.--Sidi Mohammed.--
Plain of Manouba.--Tunis.--Tfeefleeah.--The Bastinado.--Turkish
Infantry.--Kairwan.--Sidi Amour Abeda.--Saints.--A French Spy--
Administration of Justice.--The Bey's presents.--The Hobara.--Ghafsa.
Hot streams containing Fish.--Snakes.--Incantation.--Moorish Village.

CHAPTER X.

Toser.--The Bey's Palace.--Blue Doves.--The town described.--Industry
of the People.--Sheikh Tahid imprisoned and punished.--Leghorn.--The
Boo-habeeba.--A Domestic Picture.--The Bey's Diversions.--The Bastinado.--
Concealed Treasure.--Nefta.--The Two Saints.--Departure of Santa Maria.--
Snake-charmers.--Wedyen.--Deer Stalking.--Splendid view of the Sahara.--
Revolting Acts.--Qhortabah.--Ghafsa.--Byrlafee.--Mortality among the
Camels--Aqueduct.--Remains of Udina.--Arrival at Tunis.--The Boab's
Wives.--Curiosities.--Tribute Collected.--Author takes leave of the
Governor of Mogador, and embarks for England.--Rough Weather.--Arrival
in London.

APPENDIX.




TRAVELS IN MOROCCO.




CHAPTER I.

The Mogador Jewesses.--Disputes between the Jew and the Moor.--Melancholy
Scenes.--The Jews of the Atlas.--Their Religion.--Beautiful Women.--The
Four Wives.--Statues discovered.--Discrepancy of age of married people.--
Young and frail fair ones.--Superstition respecting Salt.--White
Brandy.--Ludicrous Anecdote.


Notwithstanding the imbecile prejudices of the native Barbary Jews, such
of them who adopt European habits, or who mix with European merchants,
are tolerably good members of society, always endeavouring to restrain
their own peculiarities. The European Jewesses settled in Mogador, are
indeed the belles of society, and attend all the balls (such as they
are). The Jewess sooner forgets religious differences than the Jew, and
I was told by a Christian lady, it would be a dangerous matter for a
Christian gentleman to make an offer of marriage to a Mogador Jewess,
unless in downright earnest; as it would be sure to be accepted.

Monsieur Delaport, Consul of France, was the first official person who
brought prominently forward the native and other Jews into the European
society of this place, and since then, these Jews have improved in their
manners, and increased their respectability. The principal European Jews
are from London, Gibraltar, and Marseilles. Many native Jews have
attempted to wear European clothes; and a European hat, or coat, is now
the rage among native Jewesses, who all aspire to get a husband wearing
either. Such are elements of the progress of the Jewess population in
this part of the world, and there is no doubt their position has been
greatly ameliorated within the last half century, or since the time of
Ali Bey, who thus describes their wretched condition in his days.

"Continual disputes arise between the Jew and the Moor; when the Jew is
wrong, the Moor takes his own satisfaction, and if the Jew be right, he
lodges a complaint with the judge, who always decides in favour of the
Mussulman. I have seen the Mahometan children amuse themselves by
beating little Jews, who durst not defend themselves. When a Jew passes
a mosque, he is obliged to take off his slippers, or shoes; he must do
the same when he passes the house of the Kaed, the Kady, or any
Mussulman of distinction. At Fez, and in some other towns, they are
obliged to walk barefooted." Ali Bey mentions other vexations and
oppressions, and adds, "When I saw the Jews were so ill-treated and
vexed in every way, I asked them why they did not go to another country.
They answered that they could not do so, because they were slaves of the
Sultan." Again he says, "As the Jews have a particular skill in
thieving, they indemnify themselves for the ill-treatment they receive
from the Moors, by cheating them daily."

Jewesses are exempt from taking off their slippers, or sandals, when
passing the mosques. The late Emperor, Muley Suleiman, [1] professed to
be a rigidly exact Mussulman, and considered it very indecent, and a
great scandal that Jewesses, some of them, like most women of this
country, of enormous dimensions, should be allowed to disturb the decent
frame of mind of pious Mussulmen, whilst entering the threshold of the
house of prayer, by the sad exhibitions of these good ladies stooping
down and shewing their tremendous calves, when in the act of taking off
their shoes before passing the mosques. For such reasons, Jewesses are
now privileged and exempted from the painful necessity of walking
barefoot in the streets.

The policy of the Court in relation to the Jews continually fluctuates.
Sometimes, the Emperor thinks they ought to be treated like the rest of
his subjects; at other times, he seems anxious to renew in all its
vigour the system described by Ali Bey. Hearing that the Jews of
Tangier, on returning from Gibraltar, would often adopt the European
dress, and so, by disguising themselves, be treated like Christians and
Europeans, he ordered all these would-be Europeans forthwith to be
undressed, and to resume their black turban.

Alas, how were all these Passover, Tabernacle and wedding festivals,
these happy and joyous days of the Jewish society of Mogador, changed on
the bombardment of that city! What became of the rich and powerful
merchants, the imperial vassals of commerce with their gorgeous wives
bending under the weight of diamonds, pearls, and precious gems, during
that sad and unexpected period? The newspapers of the day recorded the
melancholy story. Many of the Jews were massacred, or buried underneath
the ruins of the city; their wives subjected to plunder; the rest were
left wandering naked and starving on the desolate sandy coast of the
Atlantic, or hidden in the mountains, obtaining a momentary respite from
the rapacious fury of the savage Berbers and Arabs.

It is well known that, while the French bombarded Tangier and Mogador
from without, the Berber and Arab tribes, aided by the _canaille_ of the
Moors, plundered the city from within. Several of the Moorish rabble
declared publicly, and with the greatest cowardice and villainous
effrontery, "When the French come to destroy Mogador, we shall go and
pillage the Jews' houses, strip the women of their ornaments, and then
escape to the mountains from the pursuit of the Christians." These
threats they faithfully executed; but, by a just vengeance, they were
pillaged in turn, for the Berbers not only plundered the Jews
themselves, but the Moors who had escaped from the city laden with their
booty.

It is to be hoped that a better day is dawning for North African Jews.
The Governments of France and England can do much for them in Morocco.

The Jews of the Atlas formed the subject of some of Mr. Davidson's
literary labours; I have made further inquiries and shall give the
reader some account of them, adding that portion of Mr. Davidson's
information which was borne out by further investigation. The Atlas Jews
are physically, if not morally, superior to their brethren who reside
among the Moors. They are dispersed over the Atlas ranges, and have all
the characteristics of mountaineers. They enjoy, like their neighbours,
the Berbers and Shelouhs, a species of quasi-independence of the
Imperial authority, but they usually attach themselves to certain Berber
chieftains who protect them, and whose standards they follow.

These are the only Jews in Mahometan countries of whom I have heard as
bearing arms. They have, however, their own Sheiks, to whose
jurisdiction all domestic matters are referred. They wear the same
attire as the mountaineers, and are not distinguishable from them, they
do not address the Moors by the term of respect and title "Sidi," but in
the same way as the Moors and Arabs when they accost each other. They
speak the Shelouh language.

Mr. Davidson mentions some curious circumstances about these Jews, and
of their having a city beyond the Atlas, where three or four thousand
are livi

<PG19_BOOK test/10762.txt>





Produced by Afra Ullah and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









IMPRESSIONS OF THEOPHRASTUS SUCH


GEORGE ELIOT


Second Edition

William Blackwood and Sons
Edinburgh and London
MDCCCLXXIX



  "Suspicione si quis errabit sua,
  Et rapiet ad se, quod erit commune omnium,
  Stulte nudabit animi conscientiam
  Huic excusatum me velim nihilominus
  Neque enim notare singulos mens est mihi,
  Verum ipsam vitam et mores hominum ostendere"

  --Phaedrus


CONTENTS


    I. LOOKING INWARD

   II. LOOKING BACKWARD

  III. HOW WE ENCOURAGE RESEARCH

   IV. A MAN SURPRISED AT HIS ORIGINALITY

    V. A TOO DEFERENTIAL MAN

   VI. ONLY TEMPER

  VII. A POLITICAL MOLECULE

 VIII. THE WATCH-DOG OF KNOWLEDGE

   IX. A HALF-BREED

    X. DEBASING THE MORAL CURRENCY

   XI. THE WASP CREDITED WITH THE HONEYCOMB

  XII. "SO YOUNG!"

 XIII. HOW WE COME TO GIVE OURSELVES FALSE
       TESTIMONIALS, AND BELIEVE IN THEM

  XIV. THE TOO READY WRITER

   XV. DISEASES OF SMALL AUTHORSHIP

  XVI. MORAL SWINDLERS

 XVII. SHADOWS OF THE COMING RACE

XVIII. THE MODERN HEP! HEP! HEP!



I.


LOOKING INWARD.

It is my habit to give an account to myself of the characters I meet
with: can I give any true account of my own? I am a bachelor, without
domestic distractions of any sort, and have all my life been an
attentive companion to myself, flattering my nature agreeably on
plausible occasions, reviling it rather bitterly when it mortified me,
and in general remembering its doings and sufferings with a tenacity
which is too apt to raise surprise if not disgust at the careless
inaccuracy of my acquaintances, who impute to me opinions I never held,
express their desire to convert me to my favourite ideas, forget whether
I have ever been to the East, and are capable of being three several
times astonished at my never having told them before of my accident in
the Alps, causing me the nervous shock which has ever since notably
diminished my digestive powers. Surely I ought to know myself better
than these indifferent outsiders can know me; nay, better even than my
intimate friends, to whom I have never breathed those items of my inward
experience which have chiefly shaped my life.

Yet I have often been forced into the reflection that even the
acquaintances who are as forgetful of my biography and tenets as they
would be if I were a dead philosopher, are probably aware of certain
points in me which may not be included in my most active suspicion. We
sing an exquisite passage out of tune and innocently repeat it for the
greater pleasure of our hearers. Who can be aware of what his foreign
accent is in the ears of a native? And how can a man be conscious of
that dull perception which causes him to mistake altogether what will
make him agreeable to a particular woman, and to persevere eagerly in a
behaviour which she is privately recording against him? I have had some
confidences from my female friends as to their opinion of other men whom
I have observed trying to make themselves amiable, and it has occurred
to me that though I can hardly be so blundering as Lippus and the rest
of those mistaken candidates for favour whom I have seen ruining their
chance by a too elaborate personal canvass, I must still come under the
common fatality of mankind and share the liability to be absurd without
knowing that I am absurd. It is in the nature of foolish reasoning to
seem good to the foolish reasoner. Hence with all possible study of
myself, with all possible effort to escape from the pitiable illusion
which makes men laugh, shriek, or curl the lip at Folly's likeness, in
total unconsciousness that it resembles themselves, I am obliged to
recognise that while there are secrets in me unguessed by others, these
others have certain items of knowledge about the extent of my powers and
the figure I make with them, which in turn are secrets unguessed by me.
When I was a lad I danced a hornpipe with arduous scrupulosity, and
while suffering pangs of pallid shyness was yet proud of my superiority
as a dancing pupil, imagining for myself a high place in the estimation
of beholders; but I can now picture the amusement they had in the
incongruity of my solemn face and ridiculous legs. What sort of hornpipe
am I dancing now?

Thus if I laugh at you, O fellow-men! if I trace with curious interest
your labyrinthine self-delusions, note the inconsistencies in your
zealous adhesions, and smile at your helpless endeavours in a rashly
chosen part, it is not that I feel myself aloof from you: the more
intimately I seem to discern your weaknesses, the stronger to me is the
proof that I share them. How otherwise could I get the discernment?--for
even what we are averse to, what we vow not to entertain, must have
shaped or shadowed itself within us as a possibility before we can think
of exorcising it. No man can know his brother simply as a spectator.
Dear blunderers, I am one of you. I wince at the fact, but I am not
ignorant of it, that I too am laughable on unsuspected occasions; nay,
in the very tempest and whirlwind of my anger, I include myself under my
own indignation. If the human race has a bad reputation, I perceive that
I cannot escape being compromised. And thus while I carry in myself the
key to other men's experience, it is only by observing others that I can
so far correct my self-ignorance as to arrive at the certainty that I am
liable to commit myself unawares and to manifest some incompetency which
I know no more of than the blind man knows of his image in the glass.

Is it then possible to describe oneself at once faithfully and fully? In
all autobiography there is, nay, ought to be, an incompleteness which
may have the effect of falsity. We are each of us bound to reticence by
the piety we owe to those who have been nearest to us and have had a
mingled influence over our lives; by the fellow-feeling which should
restrain us from turning our volunteered and picked confessions into an
act of accusation against others, who have no chance of vindicating
themselves; and most of all by that reverence for the higher efforts of
our common nature, which commands us to bury its lowest fatalities, its
invincible remnants of the brute, its most agonising struggles with
temptation, in unbroken silence. But the incompleteness which comes of
self-ignorance may be compensated by self-betrayal. A man who is
affected to tears in dwelling on the generosity of his own sentiments
makes me aware of several things not included under those terms. Who has
sinned more against those three duteous reticences than Jean Jacques?
Yet half our impressions of his character come not from what he means to
convey, but from what he unconsciously enables us to discern.

This _naive_ veracity of self-presentation is attainable by the
slenderest talent on the most trivial occasions. The least lucid and
impressive of orators may be perfectly successful in showing us the weak
points of his grammar. Hence I too may be so far like Jean Jacques as to
communicate more than I am aware of. I am not indeed writing an
autobiography, or pretending to give an unreserved description of
myself, but only offering some slight confessions in an apologetic
light, to indicate that if in my absence you dealt as freely with my
unconscious weaknesses as I have dealt with the unconscious weaknesses
of others, I should not feel myself warranted by common-sense in
regarding your freedom of observation as an exceptional case of
evil-speaking; or as malignant interpretation of a character which
really offers no handle to just objection; or even as an unfair use for
your amusement of disadvantages which, since they are mine, should be
regarded with more than ordinary tenderness. Let me at least try to feel
myself in the ranks with my fellow-men. It is true, that I would rather
not hear either your well-founded ridicule or your judicious strictures.
Though not averse to finding fault with myself, and conscious of
deserving lashes, I like to keep the scourge in my own discriminating
hand. I never felt myself sufficiently meritorious to like being hated
as a proof of my superiority, or so thirsty for improvement as to desire
that all my acquaintances should give me their candid opinion of me. I
really do not want to learn from my enemies: I prefer having none to
learn from. Instead of being glad when men use me despitefully, I wish
they would behave better and find a more amiable occupation for their
intervals of business. In brief, after a close intimacy with myself for
a longer period than I choose to mention, I find within me a permanent
longing for approbation, sympathy, and love.

Yet I am a bachelor, and the person I love best has never loved me, or
known that I loved her. Though continually in society, and caring about
the joys and sorrows of my neighbours, I feel myself, so far as my
personal lot is concerned, uncared for and alone. "Your own fault, my
dear fellow!" said Minutius Felix, one day that I had incautiously
mentioned this uninteresting fact. And he was right--in senses other
than he intended. Why should I expect to be admired, and have my company
doated on? I have done no services to my country beyond those of every
peaceable orderly citizen; and as to intellectual contribution, my only
published work was a failure, so that I am spoken of to inquiring
beholders as "the author of a book you have probably not seen." (The
work was a humorous romance, unique in its kind, and I am told is much
tasted in a Cherokee translation, where the jokes are rendered with all
the serious eloquence characteristic of the Red races.) This sort of
distinction, as a writer nobody is likely to have read, can hardly
counteract an indistinctness in my articulation, which the
best-intentioned loudness will not remedy. Then, in some quarters my
awkward feet are against me, the length of my upper lip, and an
inveterate way I have of walking with my head foremost and my chin
projecting. One can become only too well aware of such things by looking
in the glass, or in that other mirror held up to nature in the frank
opinions of street-boys, or of our Free People travelling by excursion
train; and no doubt they account for the half-suppressed smile which I
have observed on some fair faces when I have first been presented before
them. This direct perceptive judgment is not to be argued against. But I
am tempted to remonstrate when the physical points I have mentioned are
apparently taken to warrant unfavourable inferences concerning my mental
quickness. With all the increasing uncertainty which modern progress has
thrown over the relations of mind and body, it seems tolerably clear
that wit cannot be seated in the upper lip, and that the balance of the
haunches in walking has nothing to do with the subtle discrimination of
ideas. Yet strangers evidently do not expect me to make a clever
observation, and my good things are as unnoticed as if they were
anonymous pictures. I have indeed had the mixed satisfaction of finding
that when they were appropriated by some one else they were found
remarkable and even brilliant. It is to be borne in mind that I am not
rich, have neither stud nor cellar, and no very high connections such as
give to a look of imbecility a certain prestige of inheritance through a
titled line; just as "the Austrian lip" confers a grandeur of historical
associations on a kind of feature which might make us reject an
advertising footman. I have now and then done harm to a good cause by
speaking for it in public, and have discovered too late that my attitude
on the occasion would more suitably have been that of negative
beneficence. Is it really to the advantage of an opinion that I should
be known to hold it? And as to the force of my arguments, that is a
secondary consideration with audiences who have given a new scope to the
_ex pede Herculem_ principle, and from awkward feet infer awkward
fallacies. Once, when zeal lifted me on my legs, I distinct

<PG19_BOOK test/12204.txt>





Produced by David Widger




ODD CRAFT

By W.W. Jacobs



BILL'S LAPSE

Strength and good-nature--said the night-watchman, musingly, as he felt
his biceps--strength and good-nature always go together.  Sometimes you
find a strong man who is not good-natured, but then, as everybody he
comes in contack with is, it comes to the same thing.

The strongest and kindest-'earted man I ever come across was a man o' the
name of Bill Burton, a ship-mate of Ginger Dick's.  For that matter 'e
was a shipmate o' Peter Russet's and old Sam Small's too.  Not over and
above tall; just about my height, his arms was like another man's legs
for size, and 'is chest and his back and shoulders might ha' been made
for a giant.  And with all that he'd got a soft blue eye like a gal's
(blue's my favourite colour for gals' eyes), and a nice, soft, curly
brown beard.  He was an A.B., too, and that showed 'ow good-natured he
was, to pick up with firemen.

He got so fond of 'em that when they was all paid off from the _Ocean
King_ he asked to be allowed to join them in taking a room ashore.  It
pleased every-body, four coming cheaper than three, and Bill being that
good-tempered that 'e'd put up with anything, and when any of the three
quarrelled he used to act the part of peacemaker.

[Illustration: "When any of the three quarrelled he used to act the part
of peacemaker."]

The only thing about 'im that they didn't like was that 'e was a
teetotaler.  He'd go into public-'ouses with 'em, but he wouldn't drink;
leastways, that is to say, he wouldn't drink beer, and Ginger used to say
that it made 'im feel uncomfortable to see Bill put away a bottle o'
lemonade every time they 'ad a drink.  One night arter 'e had 'ad
seventeen bottles he could 'ardly got home, and Peter Russet, who knew a
lot about pills and such-like, pointed out to 'im 'ow bad it was for his
constitushon.  He proved that the lemonade would eat away the coats o'
Bill's stomach, and that if 'e kept on 'e might drop down dead at any
moment.

That frightened Bill a bit, and the next night, instead of 'aving
lemonade, 'e had five bottles o' stone ginger-beer, six of different
kinds of teetotal beer, three of soda-water, and two cups of coffee.  I'm
not counting the drink he 'ad at the chemist's shop arterward, because he
took that as medicine, but he was so queer in 'is inside next morning
that 'e began to be afraid he'd 'ave to give up drink altogether.

He went without the next night, but 'e was such a generous man that 'e
would pay every fourth time, and there was no pleasure to the other chaps
to see 'im pay and 'ave nothing out of it.  It spoilt their evening, and
owing to 'aving only about 'arf wot they was accustomed to they all got
up very disagreeable next morning.

"Why not take just a little beer, Bill?" asks Ginger.

Bill 'ung his 'ead and looked a bit silly.  "I'd rather not, mate," he
ses, at last.  "I've been teetotal for eleven months now."

"Think of your 'ealth, Bill," ses Peter Russet; "your 'ealth is more
important than the pledge.  Wot made you take it?"

Bill coughed.  "I 'ad reasons," he ses, slowly.  "A mate o' mine wished
me to."

"He ought to ha' known better," ses Sam.  "He 'ad 'is reasons," ses Bill.

"Well, all I can say is, Bill," ses Ginger, "all I can say is, it's very
disobligin' of you."

"Disobligin'?" ses Bill, with a start; "don't say that, mate."

"I must say it," ses Ginger, speaking very firm.

"You needn't take a lot, Bill," ses Sam; "nobody wants you to do that.
Just drink in moderation, same as wot we do."

"It gets into my 'ead," ses Bill, at last.

"Well, and wot of it?" ses Ginger; "it gets into everybody's 'ead
occasionally.  Why, one night old Sam 'ere went up behind a policeman and
tickled 'im under the arms; didn't you, Sam?"

"I did nothing o' the kind," ses Sam, firing up.

"Well, you was fined ten bob for it next morning, that's all I know," ses
Ginger.

"I was fined ten bob for punching 'im," ses old Sam, very wild.  "I never
tickled a policeman in my life.  I never thought o' such a thing.  I'd no
more tickle a policeman than I'd fly.  Anybody that ses I did is a liar.
Why should I?  Where does the sense come in?  Wot should I want to do it
for?"

"All right, Sam," ses Ginger, sticking 'is fingers in 'is ears, "you
didn't, then."

"No, I didn't," ses Sam, "and don't you forget it.  This ain't the fust
time you've told that lie about me.  I can take a joke with any man; but
anybody that goes and ses I tickled--"

"All right," ses Ginger and Peter Russet together.  "You'll 'ave tickled
policeman on the brain if you ain't careful, Sam," ses Peter.

Old Sam sat down growling, and Ginger Dick turned to Bill agin.  "It gets
into everybody's 'ead at times," he ses, "and where's the 'arm?  It's wot
it was meant for."

Bill shook his 'ead, but when Ginger called 'im disobligin' agin he gave
way and he broke the pledge that very evening with a pint o' six 'arf.

Ginger was surprised to see the way 'e took his liquor.  Arter three or
four pints he'd expected to see 'im turn a bit silly, or sing, or do
something o' the kind, but Bill kept on as if 'e was drinking water.

"Think of the 'armless pleasure you've been losing all these months,
Bill," ses Ginger, smiling at him.

Bill said it wouldn't bear thinking of, and, the next place they came to
he said some rather 'ard things of the man who'd persuaded 'im to take
the pledge.  He 'ad two or three more there, and then they began to see
that it was beginning to have an effect on 'im.  The first one that
noticed it was Ginger Dick.  Bill 'ad just lit 'is pipe, and as he threw
the match down he ses: "I don't like these 'ere safety matches," he ses.

"Don't you, Bill?" ses Ginger.  "I do, rather."

"Oh, you do, do you?"  ses Bill, turning on 'im like lightning; "well,
take that for contradictin'," he ses, an' he gave Ginger a smack that
nearly knocked his 'ead off.

It was so sudden that old Sam and Peter put their beer down and stared at
each other as if they couldn't believe their eyes.  Then they stooped
down and helped pore Ginger on to 'is legs agin and began to brush 'im
down.

"Never mind about 'im, mates," ses Bill, looking at Ginger very wicked.
"P'r'aps he won't be so ready to give me 'is lip next time.  Let's come
to another pub and enjoy ourselves."

Sam and Peter followed 'im out like lambs, 'ardly daring to look over
their shoulder at Ginger, who was staggering arter them some distance
behind a 'olding a handerchief to 'is face.

"It's your turn to pay, Sam," ses Bill, when they'd got inside the next
place.  "Wot's it to be?  Give it a name."

"Three 'arf pints o' four ale, miss," ses Sam, not because 'e was mean,
but because it wasn't 'is turn.  "Three wot?" ses Bill, turning on 'im.

"Three pots o' six ale, miss," ses Sam, in a hurry.

"That wasn't wot you said afore," ses Bill.  "Take that," he ses, giving
pore old Sam a wipe in the mouth and knocking 'im over a stool; "take
that for your sauce."

Peter Russet stood staring at Sam and wondering wot Bill ud be like when
he'd 'ad a little more.  Sam picked hisself up arter a time and went
outside to talk to Ginger about it, and then Bill put 'is arm round
Peter's neck and began to cry a bit and say 'e was the only pal he'd got
left in the world.  It was very awkward for Peter, and more awkward still
when the barman came up and told 'im to take Bill outside.

"Go on," he ses, "out with 'im."

"He's all right," ses Peter, trembling; "we's the truest-'arted gentleman
in London.  Ain't you, Bill?"

Bill said he was, and 'e asked the barman to go and hide 'is face because
it reminded 'im of a little dog 'e had 'ad once wot 'ad died.

"You get outside afore you're hurt," ses the bar-man.

Bill punched at 'im over the bar, and not being able to reach 'im threw
Peter's pot o' beer at 'im.  There was a fearful to-do then, and the
landlord jumped over the bar and stood in the doorway, whistling for the
police.  Bill struck out right and left, and the men in the bar went down
like skittles, Peter among them.  Then they got outside, and Bill, arter
giving the landlord a thump in the back wot nearly made him swallow the
whistle, jumped into a cab and pulled Peter Russet in arter 'im.

[Illustration: "Bill jumped into a cab and pulled Peter Russet in arter
'im."]

"I'll talk to you by-and-by," he ses, as the cab drove off at a gallop;
"there ain't room in this cab.  You wait, my lad, that's all.  You just
wait till we get out, and I'll knock you silly."

"Wot for, Bill?"  ses Peter, staring.

"Don't you talk to me," roars Bill.  "If I choose to knock you about
that's my business, ain't it?  Besides, you know very well."

He wouldn't let Peter say another word, but coming to a quiet place near
the docks he stopped the cab and pulling 'im out gave 'im such a dressing
down that Peter thought 'is last hour 'ad arrived.  He let 'im go at
last, and after first making him pay the cab-man took 'im along till they
came to a public-'ouse and made 'im pay for drinks.

They stayed there till nearly eleven o'clock, and then Bill set off home
'olding the unfortunit Peter by the scruff o' the neck, and wondering out
loud whether 'e ought to pay 'im a bit more or not.  Afore 'e could make
up 'is mind, however, he turned sleepy, and, throwing 'imself down on the
bed which was meant for the two of 'em, fell into a peaceful sleep.

Sam and Ginger Dick came in a little while arterward, both badly marked
where Bill 'ad hit them, and sat talking to Peter in whispers as to wot
was to be done.  Ginger, who 'ad plenty of pluck, was for them all to set
on to 'im, but Sam wouldn't 'ear of it, and as for Peter he was so sore
he could 'ardly move.

They all turned in to the other bed at last, 'arf afraid to move for fear
of disturbing Bill, and when they woke up in the morning and see 'im
sitting up in 'is bed they lay as still as mice.

"Why, Ginger, old chap," ses Bill, with a 'earty smile, "wot are you all
three in one bed for?"  "We was a bit cold," ses Ginger.

"Cold?"  ses Bill.  "Wot, this weather?  We 'ad a bit of a spree last
night, old man, didn't we?  My throat's as dry as a cinder."

"It ain't my idea of a spree," ses Ginger, sitting up and looking at 'im.

"Good 'eavens, Ginger!" ses Bill, starting back, "wotever 'ave you been
a-doing to your face?  Have you been tumbling off of a 'bus?"

Ginger couldn't answer; and Sam Small and Peter sat up in bed alongside
of 'im, and Bill, getting as far back on 'is bed as he could, sat staring
at their pore faces as if 'e was having a 'orrible dream.

"And there's Sam," he ses.  "Where ever did you get that mouth, Sam?"

"Same place as Ginger got 'is eye and pore Peter got 'is face," ses Sam,
grinding his teeth.

"You don't mean to tell me," ses Bill, in a sad voice--"you don't mean to
tell me that I did it?"

"You know well enough," ses Ginger.

Bill looked at 'em, and 'is face got as long as a yard measure.

"I'd 'oped I'd growed out of it, mates," he ses, at last, "but drink
always takes me like that.  I can't keep a pal."

"You surprise me," ses Ginger, sarcastic-like.  "Don't talk like that,
Ginger," ses Bill, 'arf crying.

"It ain't my fault; it's my weakness.  Wot did I do it for?"

"I don't know," ses Ginger, "but you won't get the chance of doing it
agin, I'll tell you that much."

"I daresay I shall be better to-night, Ginger," ses Bill, very humble;
"it don't always take me that way.

"Well, we don't want you with us any more," ses old Sam, 'olding his 'ead
very high.

"You'll 'ave to go and get your beer by yourself, Bill," ses Peter
Russet, feeling 'is bruises with the tips of 'is fingers.

"But then I should be worse," ses Bill.  "I want cheerful company when
I'm like that.  I should very likely come 'ome and 'arf kill you all in
your beds.  You don't 'arf know what I'm like.  Last night was nothing,
else I should 'ave remembered it."

"Cheerful company?"  ses old Sam.  'Ow do you think company's going to be
cheerful when you're carrying on like that, Bill?  

<PG19_BOOK test/15562.txt>



E-text prepared by Al Haines



THE S. W. F. CLUB

by

CAROLINE E. JACOBS

Author of _Joan of Jupiter Inn_, _Joan's Jolly Vacation_,
_Patricia_, etc.

The Goldsmith Publishing Co.
Cleveland, Ohio
George W. Jacobs & Company

1912







CONTENTS

CHAPTER

    I  PAULINE'S FLAG
   II  THE MAPLES
  III  UNCLE PAUL'S ANSWER
   IV  BEGINNINGS
    V  BEDELIA
   VI  PERSONALLY CONDUCTED
  VII  HILARY'S TURN
 VIII  SNAP-SHOTS
   IX  AT THE MANOR
    X  THE END OF SUMMER




CHAPTER I

PAULINE'S FLAG

Pauline dropped the napkin she was hemming and, leaning back in her
chair, stared soberly down into the rain-swept garden.

Overhead, Patience was having a "clarin' up scrape" in her particular
corner of the big garret, to the tune of "There's a Good Time Coming."

Pauline drew a quick breath; probably, there was a good time
coming--any number of them--only they were not coming her way; they
would go right by on the main road, they always did.

"'There's a good time coming,'" Patience insisted shrilly, "'Help it
on!  Help it on!'"

Pauline drew another quick breath.  She would help them on!  If they
would none of them stop on their own account, they must be flagged.
And--yes, she would do it--right now.

Getting up, she brought her writing-portfolio from the closet, clearing
a place for it on the little table before the window.  Then her eyes
went back to the dreary, rain-soaked garden.  How did one begin a
letter to an uncle one had never seen; and of whom one meant to ask a
great favor?

But at last, after more than one false start, the letter got itself
written, after a fashion.

Pauline read it over to herself, a little dissatisfied pucker between
her brows:--


_Mr. Paul Almy Shaw,
  New York City, New York_.

MY DEAR UNCLE PAUL:  First, I should like you to understand that
neither father nor mother know that I am writing this letter to you;
and that if they did, I think they would forbid it; and I should like
you to believe, too, that if it were not for Hilary I should not dream
of writing it.  You know so little about us, that perhaps you do not
remember which of us Hilary is.  She comes next to me, and is just
thirteen.  She hasn't been well for a long time, not since she had to
leave school last winter, and the doctor says that what she needs is a
thorough change.  Mother and I have talked it over and over, but we
simply can't manage it.  I would try to earn some money, but I haven't
a single accomplishment; besides I don't see how I could leave home,
and anyway it would take so long, and Hilary needs a change now.  And
so I am writing to ask you to please help us out a little.  I do hope
you won't be angry at my asking; and I hope very, very much, that you
will answer favorably.

    I remain,
        Very respectfully,
            PAULINE ALMY SHAW.
WINTON, VT., May Sixteenth.


Pauline laughed rather nervously as she slipped her letter into an
envelope and addressed it.  It wasn't a very big flag, but perhaps it
would serve her purpose.

Tucking the letter into her blouse, Pauline ran down-stairs to the
sitting-room, where her mother and Hilary were.  "I'm going down to the
post-office, mother," she said; "any errands?"

"My dear, in this rain?"

"There won't be any mail for us, Paul," Hilary said, glancing
listlessly up from the book she was trying to read; "you'll only get
all wet and uncomfortable for nothing."

Pauline's gray eyes were dancing; "No," she agreed, "I don't suppose
there will be any mail for us--to-day; but I want a walk.  It won't
hurt me, mother.  I love to be out in the rain."

And all the way down the slippery village street the girl's eyes
continued to dance with excitement.  It was so much to have actually
started her ball rolling; and, at the moment, it seemed that Uncle Paul
must send it bounding back in the promptest and most delightful of
letters.  He had never married, and somewhere down at the bottom of his
apparently crusty, old heart he must have kept a soft spot for the
children of his only brother.

Thus Pauline's imagination ran on, until near the post-office she met
her father.  The whole family had just finished a tour of the West in
Mr. Paul Shaw's private car--of course, he must have a private car,
wasn't he a big railroad man?--and Pauline had come back to Winton long
enough to gather up her skirts a little more firmly when she saw Mr.
Shaw struggling up the hill against the wind.

"Pauline!" he stopped, straightening his tall, scholarly figure.  "What
brought you out in such a storm?"

With a sudden feeling of uneasiness, Pauline wondered what he would say
if she were to explain exactly what it was that had brought her out.
With an impulse towards at least a half-confession, she said hurriedly,
"I wanted to post a letter I'd just written; I'll be home almost as
soon as you are, father."

Then she ran on down the street.  All at once she felt her courage
weakening; unless she got her letter posted immediately she felt she
should end by tearing it up.

When it had slipped from her sight through the narrow slit labeled
"LETTERS," she stood a moment, almost wishing it were possible to get
it back again.

She went home rather slowly.  Should she confess at once, or wait until
Uncle Paul's answer came?  It should be here inside of a week, surely;
and if it were favorable--and, oh, it must be favorable--would not that
in itself seem to justify her in what she had done?

On the front piazza, Patience was waiting for her, a look of mischief
in her blue eyes.  Patience was ten, a red-haired, freckled slip of a
girl.  She danced about Pauline now.  "Why didn't you tell me you were
going out so I could've gone, too?  And what have you been up to, Paul
Shaw?  Something!  You needn't tell me you haven't."

"I'm not going to tell you anything," Pauline answered, going on into
the house.  The study door was half open, and when she had taken off
her things, Pauline stood a moment a little uncertainly outside it.
Then suddenly, much to her small sister's disgust, she went in, closing
the door behind her.

Mr. Shaw was leaning back in his big chair at one corner of the
fireplace.  "Well," he asked, looking up, "did you get your letter in
in time, my dear?"

"Oh, it wasn't the time."  Pauline sat down on a low bench at the other
end of the fireplace.  "It was that I wanted to feel that it was really
mailed.  Did you ever feel that way about a letter, father?  And as if,
if you didn't hurry and get it in--you wouldn't--mail it?"

Something in her tone made her father glance at her more closely; it
was very like the tone in which Patience was apt to make her rather
numerous confessions.  Then it occurred to him, that, whether by
accident or design, she was sitting on the very stool on which Patience
usually placed herself at such times, and which had gained thereby the
name of "the stool of penitence."

"Yes," he answered, "I have written such letters once or twice in my
life."

Pauline stooped to straighten out the hearth rug.  "Father," she said
abruptly; "I have been writing to Uncle Paul."  She drew a sharp breath
of relief.

"You have been writing to your Uncle Paul!  About what, Pauline?"

And Pauline told him.  When she had finished, Mr. Shaw sat for some
moments without speaking, his eyes on the fire.

"It didn't seem very--wrong, at the time," Pauline ventured.  "I had to
do something for Hilary."

"Why did you not consult your mother, or myself, before taking such a
step, Pauline?"

"I was afraid--if I did--that you would--forbid it; and I was so
anxious to do something.  It's nearly a month now since Dr. Brice said
Hilary must have a change.  We used to have such good times
together--Hilary and I--but we never have fun anymore--she doesn't care
about anything; and to-day it seemed as if I couldn't bear it any
longer, so I wrote.  I--I am sorry, if you're displeased with me,
father, and yet, if Uncle Paul writes back favorably, I'm afraid I
can't help being glad I wrote."

Mr. Shaw rose, lighting the low reading-lamp, standing on the study
table.  "You are frank enough after the event, at least, Pauline.  To
be equally so, I am displeased; displeased and exceedingly annoyed.
However, we will let the matter rest where it is until you have heard
from your uncle, I should advise your saying nothing to your sisters
until his reply comes.  I am afraid you will find it disappointing."

Pauline flushed.  "I never intended telling Hilary anything about it
unless I had good news for her; as for Patience--"

Out in the hall again, with the study door closed behind her, Pauline
stood a moment choking back a sudden lump in her throat.  Would Uncle
Paul treat her letter as a mere piece of school-girl impertinence, as
father seemed to?

From the sitting-room came an impatient summons.  "Paul, will you never
come!"

"What is it, Hilary?" Pauline asked, coming to sit at one end of the
old sofa.

"That's what I want to know," Hilary answered from the other end.
"Impatience says you've been writing all sorts of mysterious letters
this afternoon, and that you came home just now looking like---"

"Well, like what?"

"Like you'd been up to something--and weren't quite sure how the
grown-ups were going to take it," Patience explained from the rug
before the fire.

"How do you know I have been writing--anything?" Pauline asked.

"There, you see!"  Patience turned to Hilary, "she doesn't deny it!"

"I'm not taking the trouble to deny or confirm little girl nonsense,"
Pauline declared.  "But what makes you think I've been writing letters?"

"Oh, 'by the pricking of my thumbs'!"  Patience rolled over, and
resting her sharp little chin in her hands, stared up at her sisters
from under her mop of short red curls.  "Pen!  Ink!  Paper!  And such a
lot of torn-up scraps!  It's really very simple!"

But Pauline was on her way to the dining-room.  "Terribly convincing,
isn't it?"  Her tone should have squelched Patience, but it didn't.

"You can't fool me!" that young person retorted.  "I know you've been
up to something!  And I'm pretty sure father doesn't approve, from the
way you waited out there in the hall just now."

Pauline did not answer; she was busy laying the cloth for supper.
"Anything up, Paul?" Hilary urged, following her sister out to the
dining-room.

"The barometer--a very little; I shouldn't wonder if we had a clear day
to-morrow."

"You are as provoking as Impatience!  But I needn't have asked; nothing
worth while ever does happen to us."

"You know perfectly well, Pauline Almy Shaw!"  Patience proclaimed,
from the curtained archway between the rooms.  "You know perfectly
well, that the ev'dence against you is most in-crim-i-na-ting!"
Patience delighted in big words.

"Hilary," Pauline broke in, "I forgot to tell you, I met Mrs. Dane this
morning; she wants us to get up a social--'If the young ladies at the
parsonage will,' and so forth."

"I hate socials!  Besides, there aren't any 'young ladies' at the
parsonage; or, at any rate, only one.  I shan't have to be a young lady
for two years yet."

"Most in-crim-i-na-ting!" Patience repeated insistently; "you wrote."

Pauline turned abruptly and going into the pantry began taking down the
cups and saucers for the table.  As soon as Hilary had gone back to the
sitting-room, she called softly, "Patty, O Patty!"

Patience grinned wickedly; she was seldom called Patty, least of all by
Pauline.  "Well?" she answered.

"Come here--please," and when Patience was safely inside the pantry,
Pauline shut the door gently--"Now see here, Impatience--"

"That isn't what you called me just now!"

"Patty then--Listen, suppose--suppose I have been--trying to do
something to--to help Hilary to get well; can't you see that I wouldn't
want her to know, until I was sure, really sure, it was going to come
to something?"

Patience gave a little jump of excitement.  "How jolly!  But who have
you been writing to--about it, Paul!"

"I haven't said that--"

"See here, Paul, I'll play fair, if you do; but if you go trying to act
any 

<PG19_BOOK test/22424.txt>





Produced by Steven desJardins and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team





[Illustration: "'What's that!' howled the little professor, dancing
about in his night robe." (See page 109)]


Frank Merriwell Down South

BY

BURT L. STANDISH

AUTHOR OF "Frank Merriwell's School-Days," "Frank Merriwell's Chums,"
"Frank Merriwell's Foes," etc.

PHILADELPHIA DAVID McKAY, PUBLISHER 610 SOUTH WASHINGTON SQUARE

Copyright, 1903 By STREET & SMITH

Frank Merriwell Down South




CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                 PAGE

      I--A Wonderful Story                 7
     II--Gone                             13
    III--Held for Ransom                  19
     IV--Unmasked                         27
      V--Kidnaped                         31
     VI--Carried into the Mountains       37
    VII--The Camp in the Desert           42
   VIII--The Treasure Seeker              46
     IX--The Professor's Escape           51
      X--The Stranger                     57
     XI--The Awakening Volcano            62
    XII--Doom of the Silver Palace        68
   XIII--A Stampede in a City             75
    XIV--The Hot Blood of Youth           80
     XV--Mystery of the Flower Queen      85
    XVI--Professor Scotch Feels Ill       90
   XVII--Led into a Trap                  95
  XVIII--Barney on Hand                  100
    XIX--A Humble Apology                106
     XX--The Professor's Courage         111
    XXI--Frank's Bold Move               116
   XXII--The Queen is Found              121
  XXIII--Fighting Lads                   127
   XXIV--End of the Search               132
    XXV--The Mysterious Canoe            138
   XXVI--Still More Mysterious           144
  XXVII--In the Everglades               149
 XXVIII--The Hut on the Island           155
   XXIX--A Wild Night in the Swamp       160
    XXX--Frank's Shot                    165
   XXXI--Young in Years Only             170
  XXXII--A Mysterious Transformation     177
 XXXIII--Gage Takes a Turn               181
  XXXIV--A Fearful Fate                  186
   XXXV--The Serpent Vine                192
  XXXVI--Right or Wrong                  196
 XXXVII--Frank's Mercy                   200
XXXVIII--In the Mountains Again          206
  XXXIX--Frank and Kate                  212
     XL--A Jealous Lover                 218
    XLI--Facing Death                    222
   XLII--Muriel                          228
  XLIII--Saved!                          240
   XLIV--Frank's Suspicion               248
    XLV--The Greatest Peril              257
   XLVI--The Mystery of Muriel           263


[Transcriber's Note: The following list of illustrations has been
created for this electronic edition. Some illustrations have been moved
to positions closer to their appearance in the text.]


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

"'What's that!' howled the little professor, dancing
about in his night robe." (See page 109)

"Frank began shooting, and his first bullet brought
down one of the ponies of the pursuers." (See page 14)

"The white canoe had stopped, and was lying calmly on
the inky surface of the shadowed water." (See page 147)

"Kate grasped the assailant by the collar, and with
astonishing strength, pulled him off the prostrate
lad." (See page 218)




Frank Merriwell Down South.

CHAPTER I.

A WONDERFUL STORY.


"It is in the heart of the Sierra Madre range, one hundred and
twenty-five miles west of Zacatecas," said the dying man. "Across the
blue chasm you can see its towers and turrets glistening in the
sunshine. It is like a beautiful dream--dazzling, astounding, grand!"

"He wanders in his mind," softly declared Professor Scotch. "Poor
fellow! His brain was turned and he was brought to his death by his
fruitless search for the mythical Silver Palace."

The man who lay on a bed of grass in one corner of the wretched adobe
hut turned a reproachful look on the little professor.

"You are wrong," he asserted, in a voice that seemed to have gained
strength for the moment. "I am not deranged--I am not deceived by an
hallucination. With my eyes I have seen the wonderful Silver
Palace--yes, more than that, I have stood within the palace and beheld
the marvelous treasures which it contains."

The professor turned away to hide the look on his face, but Frank
Merriwell, deeply interested, bent over the unfortunate man, asking:

"By what route can this wonderful palace be reached?"

"There is no route. Between us and the Silver Palace lie waterless
deserts, great mountains, and, at last, a yawning chasm, miles in width,
miles in depth. This chasm extends entirely round the broad plateau on
which the wonderful palace stands like a dazzling dream. The bottom of
the chasm is hidden by mists which assume fantastic forms, and whirl and
sway and dash forward and backward, like battling armies. Indians fear
the place; Mexicans hold it in superstitious horror. It is said that
these mist-like forms are the ghosts of warriors dead and gone, a
wonderful people who built the Silver Palace in the days of
Cortez--built it where the Spaniard could not reach and despoil it."

Despite his doubts, the professor was listening with strong interest to
this remarkable tale.

The fourth person in the hut was the Dutch boy, Hans Dunnerwust, who sat
on the ground, his back against the wall, his jaw dropped and his eyes
bulging. Occasionally, as he listened to the words of the dying man, he
would mutter:

"Chimminy Gristmas!"

For several weeks Frank Merriwell, our hero, Hans, his chum, and
Professor Scotch, his guardian, had been exploring the country around
the city of Mendoza, Mexico. They had come to Mexico after having
numerous adventures in our own country, as related in "Frank Merriwell
Out West," a former volume of this series.

Only a short hour before they had run across the sufferer, whose head
seemed so full of the things he had seen at what he called the Silver
Palace. They had found him almost dead in a hut at the edge of a sandy
plain, suffering great pain and calling loudly for aid. They had done
what they could, and then he had begun to talk, as related above.

With surprising strength the man on the bed of grass sat up, stretching
out his hands, gazing across the sunlit sand-plain beyond the open door
of the hut, and went on:

"I see it now--I see it once again! There, there--see it gleaming like a
dazzling diamond in the sunshine! See its beautiful towers and turrets!
That dome is of pure gold! Within those walls are treasures untold!
There are great vaults of gold and silver ornaments, bars and ingots!
There are precious stones in profusion! And all this treasure would make
a thousand men rich for life! But it's not for me--it's lost to me
forever!"

With a stifled moan, he fell back into Frank's arms, and was lowered on
the bed of grass.

Professor Scotch hastily felt the man's pulse, listened for the beating
of his heart, and then cried:

"Quick, Frank--the brandy! It may be too late, but we'll try to give him
a few more minutes of life."

"That's right!" palpitated Frank. "Bring him back to consciousness, for
we have not yet learned how to reach the Silver Palace."

"There is no such place as the Silver Palace," sharply declared the
professor, as he forced a few drops of brandy between the lips of the
unfortunate man. "The fellow has dreamed it."

"Perhaps."

"Perhaps! Why, Frank, I took you for a boy of more sense! Think--think
of the absurdity! It is impossible!"

"It may be."

"I know it is."

"Vell, maype you don'd nefer peen misdooken, brofessor?" insinuated
Hans, recovering for a moment from his dazed condition.

The professor did not notice the Dutch boy's words, for the man on the
bed of grass drew a long, fluttering breath and slowly opened his eyes.

"I thought I saw the palace once more," he whispered. "It was all a
delusion."

"That is true," nodded the professor, "it is all a delusion. Such a
place as this Silver Palace is an absurd impossibility. The illness
through which you have passed has affected your mind, and you dreamed of
the palace."

"It is not so!" returned the man, reproachfully. "I have proof! You
doubt me--you will not believe?"

"Be calm--be quiet," urged the professor. "This excitement will cut your
life short by minutes, and minutes are precious to you now."

"That is true; minutes are precious," hastily whispered the man. "It is
not the fever I am dying of--no, no! The water from the spring you may
see behind the hut--it has destroyed many people. This morning, before
you came, a peon found me here. He told me--he said the spring was
poison. The water robs men of strength--of life. I could not understand
him well. He went away and left me. I could see him running across the
desert, as if from a plague. And now I am dying--dying!"

"But the Silver Palace?" observed Frank Merriwell. "You are forgetting
that."

"Yah," nodded the Dutch lad; "you peen forgetting dot, ain'd id?"

"The proof," urged Frank. "You say you have proof."

"Yah," put in Hans; "you say you haf der broof. Vere id peen?"

"It is here," declared the unfortunate, as he fumbled beneath the straw.
"You are my countrymen--you have been kind to me. Alwin Bushnell may
never return. It is terrible to think all that treasure may be
lost--lost forever!"

"Who is Alwin Bushnell?"

"My partner--the one who was with me when I found the palace."

"Where is he now?"

"Heaven knows! He went for another balloon."

"Another balloon?"

"Yes; it was with the aid of a balloon that we reached the Silver
Palace. Without it we could not have crossed the gulf."

"Absurd!" muttered the professor.

Despite the fact that the word was merely murmured, the miserable man on
the bed of grass did not fail to catch it.

"Oh, I will convince even you!" he exclaimed, gasping for breath, and
continuing to fumble beneath the straw. "You shall see--you shall know!
But our balloon--we had no means of obtaining a further supply of gas.
It was barely sufficient to take us across the gulf, with a few pieces
of treasure. We struck against the side of the bluff--we were falling
back into the abyss! Barely were we able to scramble out of the car and
cling to the rocks. Then we saw the balloon rise a little, like a bird
freed of burden; but it suddenly collapsed, fluttered downward, and the
mists leaped up and clutched it like a thousand exulting demons,
dragging it down from our sight. We crawled up from the rocks, but it
was a close call--a close call."

He lay exhausted, his eyes closed, his hand ceasing to fumble beneath
the straw. Once more Professor Scotch gave him a little of the brandy.

Frank Merriwell was more than interested; he could feel his heart
trembling with excitement. Something seemed to tell him that this man
was speaking the truth, and he was eager to hear more.

For a long time the unfortunate lay gasping painfully for breath, but,
at last, he was easier. He opened his eyes, and saw Frank watching him
steadily, with an anxious expression.

"Ah!" he murmured, exultantly, "you believe me--you do not doubt! I must
tell you everything. You shall be Jack Burk's heir. Think of it--heir to
wealth enough to make you richer than Monte Cristo! Witness--witness
that I make this boy my heir!"

He turned to the professor and Hans, and both bowed, the former saying:

"We are witnesses."

"Good! We escaped with our lives, but we brought little of the treasure
with us. I was determined to find the way back there, and I made a map.
See, here it is."

He thrust a soiled and crumpled piece of paper into Frank's hand, and
the boy saw there were lines and writing on it.

"How we found our way out of the mountains, how we endured the heat of
the desert I cannot tell," went on the weak voice of the man on the bed
of straw. "We reached Zacatecas, and then Bushnell went for another
balloon. He knows friends who have money and power, and he will get the
balloon--if he lives."

"But the proof--the proof that you were going to show us?"

"It is here! Look!"

From beneath the stra

<PG19_BOOK test/24553.txt>





Produced by Paul Murray, Rene Anderson Benitz and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









CRITICAL MISCELLANIES


BY

JOHN MORLEY


VOL. II.

Essay 4: Joseph de Maistre




London
MACMILLAN AND CO., Limited
New York: The MacMillan Company
1905




JOSEPH DE MAISTRE.




                                                                   PAGE

The Catholic reaction in France at the beginning of the century     257

De Maistre the best type of the movement                            262

Birth, instruction, and early life                                  263

Invasion of Savoy, and De Maistre's flight                          268

At Lausanne, Venice, and Cagliari                                   270

Sent in 1802 as minister to St. Petersburg                          275

Hardships of his life there from 1802 to 1817                       276

Circumstances of his return home, and his death                     285

De Maistre's view of the eighteenth century                         287

And of the French Revolution                                        291

The great problem forced upon the Catholics by it                   293

De Maistre's way of dealing with the question of the divine
  method of government                                              293

Nature of divine responsibility for evil                            294

On Physical Science                                                 298

Significance of such ideas in a mind like De Maistre's              299

Two theories tenable by social thinkers after the Revolution        303

De Maistre's appreciation of the beneficent work of the
  Papacy in the past                                                307

Insists on the revival of the papal power as the essential
  condition of a restored European order                            313

Views Christianity from the statesman's point of view               314

His consequent hatred of the purely speculative temper of
  the Greeks                                                        316

His object was social or political                                  318

Hence his grounds for defending the doctrine of Infallibility       319

The analogy which lay at the bottom of his Ultramontane
  doctrine                                                          320

His hostility to the authority of General Councils                  323

His view of the obligation of the canons on the Pope                325

His appeal to European statesmen                                    326

Comte and De Maistre                                                329

His strictures on Protestantism                                     331

Futility of his aspirations                                         335




JOSEPH DE MAISTRE.


Owing to causes which lie tolerably near the surface, the remarkable
Catholic reaction which took place in France at the beginning of the
present century, has never received in England the attention that it
deserves; not only for its striking interest as an episode in the
history of European thought, but also for its peculiarly forcible and
complete presentation of those ideas with which what is called the
modern spirit is supposed to be engaged in deadly war. For one thing,
the Protestantism of England strips a genuinely Catholic movement of
speculation of that pressing and practical importance which belongs to
it in countries where nearly all spiritual sentiment, that has received
any impression of religion at all, unavoidably runs in Catholic forms.
With us the theological reaction against the ideas of the eighteenth was
not and could not be other than Protestant. The defence and
reinstatement of Christianity in each case was conducted, as might have
been expected, with reference to the dominant creed and system of the
country. If Coleridge had been a Catholic, his works thus newly coloured
by an alien creed would have been read by a small sect only, instead of
exercising as they did a wide influence over the whole nation, reaching
people through those usual conduits of press and pulpit, by which the
products of philosophic thought are conveyed to unphilosophic minds. As
naturally in France, hostility to all those influences which were
believed to have brought about the Revolution, to sensationalism in
metaphysics, to atheism in what should have been theology, to the notion
of sovereignty of peoples in politics, inevitably sought a
rallying-point in a renewed allegiance to that prodigious spiritual
system which had fostered the germs of order and social feeling in
Europe, and whose name remains even now in the days of its ruin, as the
most permanent symbol and exemplar of stable organisation. Another
reason for English indifference to this movement is the rapidity with
which here, as elsewhere, dust gathers thickly round the memory of the
champions of lost causes. Some of the most excellent of human
characteristics--intensity of belief, for example, and a fervid anxiety
to realise aspirations--unite with some of the least excellent of them,
to make us too habitually forget that, as Mill has said, the best
adherents of a fallen standard in philosophy, in religion, in politics,
are usually next in all good qualities of understanding and sentiment to
the best of those who lead the van of the force that triumphs. Men are
not so anxious as they should be, considering the infinite diversity of
effort that goes to the advancement of mankind, to pick up the
fragments of truth and positive contribution, that so nothing be lost,
and as a consequence the writings of antagonists with whom we are
believed to have nothing in common, lie unexamined and disregarded.

In the case of the group of writers who, after a century of criticism,
ventured once more with an intrepid confidence--differing fundamentally
from the tone of preceding apologists in the Protestant camp, who were
nearly as critical as the men they refuted--to vindicate not the bare
outlines of Christian faith, but the entire scheme, in its extreme
manifestation, of the most ancient and severely maligned of all
Christian organisations, this apathy is very much to be regretted on
several grounds. In the first place, it is impossible to see
intelligently to the bottom of the momentous spirit of ultramontanism,
which is so deep a difficulty of continental Europe, and which, touching
us in Ireland, is perhaps already one of our own deepest difficulties,
without comprehending in its best shape the theory on which
ultramontanism rests. And this theory it is impossible to seize
thoroughly, without some knowledge of the ideas of its most efficient
defenders in its earlier years. Secondly, it is among these ideas that
we have to look for the representation in their most direct, logical,
uncompromising, and unmistakable form of those theological ways of
regarding life and prescribing right conduct, whose more or less rapidly
accelerated destruction is the first condition of the further elevation
of humanity, as well in power of understanding as in morals and
spirituality. In all contests of this kind there is the greatest and
most obvious advantage in being able to see your enemy full against the
light. Thirdly, in one or two respects, the Catholic reactionaries at
the beginning of the century insisted very strongly on principles of
society which the general thought of the century before had almost
entirely dropped out of sight, and which we who, in spite of many
differences, still sail down the same great current, and are propelled
by the same great tide, are accustomed almost equally either to leave in
the background of speculation, or else deliberately to deny and
suppress. Such we may account the importance which they attach to
organisation, and the value they set upon a common spiritual faith and
doctrine as a social basis. That the form which the recognition of these
principles is destined to assume will at all correspond to their hopes
and anticipations, is one of the most unlikely things possible. This,
however, need not detract from the worth for our purpose of their
exposition of the principles themselves. Again, the visible traces of
the impression made by the writings of this school on the influential
founder of the earliest Positivist system, are sufficiently deep and
important to make some knowledge of them of the highest historical
interest, both to those who accept and those who detest that system.

At the beginning of the nineteenth century, there were three chief
schools of thought, the Sensational, the Catholic, and the Eclectic; or
as it may be put in other terms, the Materialist, the Theological, and
the Spiritualist. The first looked for the sources of knowledge, the
sanction of morals, the inspiring fountain and standard of aesthetics, to
the outside of men, to matter, and the impressions made by matter on the
corporeal senses. The second looked to divine revelation, authority and
the traditions of the Church. The third, steering a middle course,
looked partly within and partly without, relied partly on the senses,
partly on revelation and history, but still more on a certain internal
consciousness of a direct and immediate kind, which is the supreme and
reconciling judge of the reports alike of the senses, of history, of
divine revelation.[1] Each of these schools had many exponents. The
three most conspicuous champions of revived Catholicism were De Maistre,
De Bonald, and Chateaubriand. The last of them, the author of the _Genie
du Christianisme_, was effective in France because he is so deeply
sentimental, but he was too little trained in speculation, and too
little equipped with knowledge, to be fairly taken as the best
intellectual representative of their way of thinking. De Bonald was of
much heavier calibre. He really thought, while Chateaubriand only felt,
and the _Legislation Primitive_ and the _Pensees sur Divers Sujets_
contain much that an enemy of the school will find it worth while to
read, in spite of an artificial, and, if a foreigner may judge, a
detestable style.

De Maistre was the greatest of the three, and deserves better than
either of the others to stand as the type of the school for many
reasons. His style is so marvellously lucid, that, notwithstanding the
mystical, or, as he said, the illuminist side of his mind, we can never
be in much doubt about his meaning, which is not by any means the case
with Bonald. To say nothing of his immensely superior natural capacity,
De Maistre's extensive reading in the literature of his foes was a
source of strength, which might indeed have been thought indispensable,
if only other persons had not attacked the same people as he did,
without knowing much or anything at all at first-hand about them. Then
he goes over the whole field of allied subjects, which we have a right
to expect to have handled by anybody with a systematic view of the
origin of knowledge, the meaning of ethics, the elements of social order
and progressiveness, the government and scheme of the universe. And
above all, his writings are penetrated with the air of reality and life,
which comes of actual participation in the affairs of that world with
which social philosophers have to deal. Lamennais had in many respects a
finer mind than De Maistre, but the conclusions in which he was finally
landed, no less than his liberal aims, prevent him from being an example
of the truly Catholic reaction. He obviously represented the Revolution,
or the critical spirit, within the Catholic limits, while De Maistre's
ruling idea was, in his own trenchant phrase, '_absolument tuer
l'esprit du dix-huitieme siecle_.' On all these accounts he appears to
be the fittest expositor of those conceptions which the anarchy that
closed the eighteenth century provoked into systematic existence.

FOOTNOTE:

[1] See Damiron's _La Philosophie en France au XIXieme Siecle_.
Introduction to Vol. I. (Fifth edition.)




I.


Joseph de Maistre was born at C
